As of today, April 14, 2026, I have gotten full IOS-XE CLI access funtioning like a normal 9300 with one phyiscal workaround to get a persistant config working. 

After lots of testing and expirementing, I have gotten the MS390 to behave like a standard 9300 with local CLI. The only issue at this point is config persistance. The method currently involves mashing the front reset button to get into ROMMON on startup and setting SWITCH_IGNORE_STARTUP_CFG=1. This will allow the switch to boot to a standard Switch> prompt. In this state, no Meraki service are running and service meraki connect is disabled by default. Switch is fully configurable and passes traffic normally. You can attempt to write the startup config and it will appear to succeed. However, when the flag SWITCH_IGNORE_STARTUP_CFG is unset or set to 0, something in the firmware will forefully overwrite the startup-config that is currently preset with a generic Meraki-ified one. 

To stop this from happening, you need to prevent the Meraki service from being able to write over the startup config. The best solution I have currently is to use a full-sized SD card with a write-protect switch. 

What you need:
 - A full-sized SD card with funtionine write-protect switch
 - A USB type-a to full SD card adapter the honors the write-protect status

Step-by-step instructions
1. Make sure device is running IOS-XE 17.18.2. Other versions may work, but this is the only one I've tested and confirmed to work.
2. Power on switch and wait for the console to print boot is : [ boot flash:packages.conf ] boot: attempting to boot from[flash:packages.conf] You then want to start pressing the reset button on the front aboive the Cisco logo with a paper-clip. This whould halt the boot process and drop you at the switch: prompt
3. Run "SWITCH_IGNORE_STARTUP_CFG=1" and type "boot"
4. The device should then boot all the way up and you land at the switch> prompt.
5. Take your SD card and format it to FAT32 on a computer.
6. Connect your SD card to the switch using the internal USB header (you must remove the cover), or to the front panel if you have performed a 3650/3850 daughter board/bezel swap.
7. Make your baseline config edits on the switch (crypto keys for SSH, hostname, IP, etc) then execute boot enable-break from global configuration mode. This will allow you to use CTRL+C to get into ROMMON in the future. 
8. Copy your running-config to usbflash0: (or usbflash2: depending on USB header) and give it a unique name: eg. usbflash0:9300-conf
9. Remove the SD card and reader and flip the switch to write-protect and re-insert. This can be done during operation.
10. reload the switch and break back into ROMMON to get to the switch: prompt.
11. execute "set SWITCH_IGNORE_STARTUP_CFG=0" and then set the CONFIG_FILE to the new config you just created on the SD card eg. "set CONFIG_FILE=usbflash0:9300-conf"
12. execute "boot"
13. It should now boot into IOS-XE with the config you saved to the SD card unmodified


Version tested: IOS-XE 17.18.2 installed from Meraki Dashboard.
ROMMON version: 17.5.8r
VERSION_ID=V01
